date: 2013-03-30
published: true
tags: [gtd, pim, calendar]
title: Managing GTD projects with a Google calendar
summary: The GTD book says to use your calendar only for things you
  have to get done at a specific time. But modern calendaring tools
  manage several calendars. I have one or two Google calendars that I
  use for real appointments, but after trying lots of alternatives, I
  ended up using another Google calendar as my projects list.

_The GTD book says to use your calendar only for things you have to get
done at a specific time. But modern calendaring tools manage several
calendars. I have one or two Google calendars that I use for real
appointments, but after trying lots of alternatives, I ended up using
another Google calendar as my projects list._

My calendar has been electronic at least as far back as the mid '90s
when I started <a href="http://www.w3.org/Tools/pypsion/">using a
psion</a>. As much as I like managing data electronically, for
reliability and availability, I find that paper is better than
softcopy&mdash;better than one softcopy, that is. Once you get to two
softcopies on different machines, it's better than paper. <a
href="../../2003/advogato_entry0004.html" >Moving to a sidekick in
2003</a> met that bar with continuous sync with the cloud.

So that rules out the various todo list apps that don't sync between
the cloud and mobile&emdash;including the tasks in Google calendar!

I tried a desktop wiki, sync'd to mobile manually each week. The
manual work didn't get done. I tried a Google docs spreadsheet but
somehow that didn't stick either.

But then the agenda view in Google calendar got me thinking: that's
not bad for keeping a list. So I made a new calendar with an all-day
event some time next week for each project. When a new project comes
up, I quickly add an all day event today; in my weekly review, I
figure out next actions and put them after this week (or the week
after), out of mind, spreading them out Mon-Fri to give a rough sense
of priority. The month view is hand for this: I can just slide each
one down a week or two, changing day of week as priorities change.

If the projects start showing up my agenda widget or weekly view, I
know I'm behind on my weekly review.

One of the best features of this system is that I can include my
projects list&mdash;or not&mdash;in calendar searches.

My biggest struggle with GTD is my tendency to go depth-first: I
struggle to review something without actually getting down into it. I
haven't found anything that works well for processing my inbox; but
when it comes to reviewing projects, I'm mostly winning the struggle
since I started using a calendar for my projects list.

